Final Project Proposal - Dan Sienko

"What will (likely) be the title of your project?"

Exploration 4

"In just a sentence or two, summarize your project."

I would like to create a text based narrative game with multiple paths/endings based on the novel House of Leaves by Mark Z Danielewski. 

"List at least 3 resources you know you will use in developing your project"

I know I will use RenPy, ChatGPT for assistance, and textmate to write code.

"In a paragraph or more, detail your project. What will your software do? What features will it have? How will it be executed?"

My software will take the player through a brief introduction sequence setting up the world of the game (the spacially anomalous house) and giving the directive. The player will take the perspective of the explorer Holloway Roberts, alongside his assistants Wax Hook and Jed Leeder as they delve into the impossible "Five and a Half Minute Hallway" that they have been tasked to explore. Once inside, the player will be faced with a series of branching decision paths which will lead to 1 of 3 endings. Ending 1: Holloway loses his group, accidentally shoots Wax, runs away, shoots Jed, and eventually dies inside the house. 
Ending 2: Holloway loses his group, accidentally shoots Wax, reunites with the group, makes it out of the house.
Ending 3: Holloway remains with the group, makes it out of the house.

"Will any work as part of this project overlap with any work you are doing outside of this class? For another class? Who is the professor in this class?"

It won't necessarily align with any other classwork, but I have wanted to learn how to program my own games since I was a kid and I will use this knowledge in the future to create online games as advertising opportunities for my music. 

"In the world of software, most everything takes longer to implement than you expect. And so it's not uncommon to accomplish less in a fixed amount of time than you hope. In a sentence (or list of features), define a GOOD outcome for your final project. I.e., what WILL you accomplish no matter what?"

No matter what, I will create a game experience based on House of Leaves with 1 ending and no branching paths.

"In a sentence (or list of features), define a BETTER outcome for your final project. I.e., what do you THINK you can accomplish before the final project's deadline?"

I think I can accomplish a game experience based on House of Leaves with two branching paths and two endings.

"In a sentence (or list of features), define a BEST outcome for your final project. I.e., what do you HOPE to accomplish before the final project's deadline?"

The best outcome is a game experience based on House of Leaves with several branching paths and game-over/loss opportunities, with three specific non-game-over endings.

"In a paragraph or more, outline your next steps WITH A SPECIFIC CALENDAR. What new skills will you need to acquire? What topics will you need to research?"

By April 12th, I will have all the assetts needed for my project uploaded into renpy. By April 19th, I will have an unpolished game that is successfully able to run through one scenario with no branching paths. By April 26th I will have polished that section and added a new ending. By May 3rd my project will be finished with all three endings. 